<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>CHAPTER <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XIV</span><br/>
			<span class="sub-head"><span class="sc">New Information</span></span></h2>
			<p class="pindent">It was not until late that evening that Nancy Drew was given an opportunity to tell her father what she had learned at Dockville, for he was detained at the office on a special case and did not come home for dinner.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Well, Nancy,” he said, as he entered the house shortly after ten o’clock, “sorry to be so late, but I think I have some news for you to-night.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">Nancy was eager to tell her own story, but she decided to let that wait.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Something about the mystery?” she inquired hopefully.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes. I learned a few facts which may throw a new light on the affair.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I hope the tip is <span class="it">bona fide</span> this time,” Nancy sighed. “I’ve been trailing false clues so long I’m getting tired of the sport. What did you learn?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Well, I promised to find out what I could about Viola Granger. I looked it up at the court house and found that I was correct about her prison record.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“But of course that doesn’t prove that she was the one who took the jewelry.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No. But she was at the inn at the time of the robbery, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Willoughby and her friend mentioned the peculiar way she scrutinized them as they entered the dining room. That all looks suspicious. Then I learned another thing.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“What was that?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Viola Granger appears to have come into considerable money lately. At least I was told in confidence at the bank that she made large deposits during the last week.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Do you know the amounts?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes, I made it a point to find out. On the twelfth she deposited ten thousand dollars in a savings account and on the fourteenth something over five thousand.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“The twelfth you say. That was only two days after the robbery.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Precisely.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Oh, dear, this complicates everything,” Nancy sighed. “Honestly, it seems as though everyone in River Heights is coming into money suddenly.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It’s a complicated case, Nancy; but really I thought this clue might simplify things a trifle.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">Nancy shook her head.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It seems to me it only makes it worse than before.” She remained silent for a minute and then said slowly: “Dad, doesn’t it strike you that if Viola Granger were really guilty she would be afraid to make bank deposits so openly?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes,” Carson Drew admitted. “I thought of that.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Do the police know about her money?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Not to my knowledge. Of course they questioned her perfunctorily along with the others, but I don’t believe they learned anything of interest.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You haven’t told them about the bank deposits?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No, the president of the bank gave me the information in confidence. I doubt that the police would be interested in the information, anyway. They have concentrated all their efforts into building up a case against <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Willoughby.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“They seem determined to pin the robbery on her whether she’s guilty or not. I think they should sift all the facts before trying to decide who committed the crime.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“The case is a little too big for the police,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew observed with a smile. “I understand they grilled <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Willoughby for several hours last night.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“How mean! At least⁠—oh, for Emily’s sake I hope nothing will come of that!”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“They’re trying to wring a confession from her. Persistence like that is all right for hardened criminals, but I’m sure <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Willoughby isn’t in that class.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Do you think she had anything to do with the robbery, Dad?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’m rather inclined to believe she told us the truth that day she called here, Nancy. Unfortunately, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Willoughby is very excitable and the police confuse her easily. Naturally, that tends to throw suspicion upon her.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Are you inclined to believe Viola Granger took the jewelry?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’m frank to admit I haven’t arrived at a definite theory, Nancy. However, it begins to look as though this Granger woman may have had something to do with it⁠—provided I’m right about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Willoughby.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“What you’ve told me about her sort of knocks my own theory into a cocked hat.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I didn’t know you had progressed as far as a theory, Nancy.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Probably it would be more accurate to use the word suspicion instead of theory. This morning I happened to make a little discovery of my own.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">Nancy then proceeded to relate what she had learned in Dockville concerning Mary Mason. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew listened intently until she had finished.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I must agree that it does look very queer when a poverty-stricken domestic buys expensive gowns from the best stores in town,” he said quietly. “Of course that fact alone isn’t enough to definitely connect her with this robbery.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“No, but it’s a clue, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Perhaps. It won’t do any harm to keep your eye on her.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I intend to do that, and I want to find out everything I can about her. And Viola Granger may be the guilty person after all.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I never saw a case which had so many loose ends.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Nor did I! This afternoon I felt so encouraged. I thought I’d stumbled on to something that had a bearing on the case, and now I’m not so sure.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Don’t get discouraged,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew said kindly. “After all, there may be something in what you have discovered. Perhaps Mary Mason herself knows something and someone is paying her to keep silent. There’s that angle. You’re certain, I presume, that there can be no mistake about her buying all of those expensive clothes?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’m certain that seven boxes were delivered to her, for I saw them with my own eyes. Of course I can’t swear as to what was in them or the cost of the articles.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“It might be well to investigate further before making any accusations.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I don’t know how to find out about the dresses⁠—that is, unless I called at the store. Do you imagine they would tell me anything?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I’m afraid not. Most stores protect their customers and refuse to give out anything concerning their accounts.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“But you know <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hodge at the Taylor Store, Dad. Isn’t he one of the big men there?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Manager.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Why not ask him to trace what Mary Mason really bought and what she paid for the things?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“That’s a rather ticklish undertaking, Nancy.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“You’ve done favors for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hodge more than once. He ought to do that much for you.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“He might do it for me, though I’m sure it would not be according to the store’s policy.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Oh, bother their old policy!” Nancy returned impatiently. “He ought to be glad of a chance to help solve the mystery. Will you ask him to-morrow?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes, if you want me to.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew smiled indulgently.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Oh, Dad, you think it’s perfectly silly, don’t you?” Nancy demanded, somewhat nettled at her father’s smile.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Not at all,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Drew responded quickly. “I was just thinking how you always managed to get your own way.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Not always. Will you see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hodge the first thing in the morning?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes, and while I’m about it I’ll call several of the other leading stores for you.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Fine!”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“How about the pawnbrokers?”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“The pawnbrokers?” Nancy questioned, not catching her father’s idea.</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes. If this Mason girl actually took the jewels herself and was not a chance eye witness of the robbery, she’d have to convert them into cash some way. Through the pawnbrokers would probably be the easiest way.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Of course. It was stupid of me not to think of that myself.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“There are three in River Heights. If you want me to inquire I’ll make it my business to drop in to-morrow morning.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“I wish you would! If we can trace the jewelry through a pawnbroker the mystery is as good as solved.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">“Yes,” and Carson Drew smiled. “But I’m afraid it won’t be that easy.”</p>
			<p class="pindent">Nancy, too, realized that only lucky chance could bring the mystery of Lilac Inn to a quick termination. However, she felt that she had taken a step in the right direction and would yet help Emily Crandall regain her fortune.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
